Environment variables (#2944)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/reference/env-variables.rst

.. meta::
    :description: Environment variables reference
    :keywords: AMD, ROCm, Environment variables, Environment, reference

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
Environment variables reference
*************************************************************

General overview
==========================================

> Environment variables effecting the all the libraries in ROCm software stack

Reviewer: Typo - remove 'the'

Environment variables effecting **the** all the libraries in ROCm software stack.

Do we know that these variables impact 'all' the libraries? We could consider,

Environment variables that impact libraries in the ROCm software stack.

Reviewer: 'Affect' has a negative connotation, so not recommended.

Reviewer 2: Updated.

.. meta::
    :description: Environment variables reference
    :keywords: AMD, ROCm, environment variables, environment, reference

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
Environment variables reference
*************************************************************

> General overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
General environment variables
```

Author: Already changed locally. I will finish this PR and https://github.com/ROCm/HIP/pull/3515 today.

      - bool
      - 0
      - Force device mem for kernel args.
    *
      - DEBUG_CLR_GRAPH_PACKET_CAPTURE
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enable/Disable graph packet capturing
    *
      - GPU_DEBUG_ENABLE
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enables collection of extra info for debugger at some performance cost
    *
      - HIPRTC_COMPILE_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 
      - Set compile options needed for hiprtc compilation
    *
      - HIPRTC_LINK_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 
      - Set link options needed for hiprtc compilation
    *
      - HIP_VMEM_MANAGE_SUPPORT
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Virtual Memory Management Support
    *
      - HIPCC_VERBOSE
      - uint
      - 0
      - How much extra info to show during build. E.g: compiler flags, paths.
    *
      - ROCPROFILER_REGISTER_ROOT
      - cstring
      - 
      - The path to the rocProfiler.

AMD rocclr environment variables at debug build:

.. list-table:: AMD rocclr environment variables
    :header-rows: 1
    :name: rocclr-env-variables-debug-table

    *
      - Environment variable
      - Variable type
      - Default value
      - Description
    *

>       - DEBUG_GPU_FLAGS

Reviewer 4: We should not expose internal variable for runtime debug.

Reviewer 4: Basically don't copy all variables from flags.hpp into this doc...

Reviewer 5: Should we have different sections about the variables? Like common ones, hacker ones, debug ones?
If they do exist, it would be nice they are described somewhere from a software quality perspective.

Reviewer 6: ok, i can check and remove those. there are some HSA env variables, that also look like they are for internal debugging, should i remove those as well? (e.g: HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION)

Reviewer 5: At the end `HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION` seems quite necessary since it allows some owners of non-supported GPU to just use them.

.. meta::
    :description: Environment variables reference
    :keywords: AMD, ROCm, Environment variables, Environment, reference

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
Environment variables reference
*************************************************************

General overview
==========================================

Environment variables that impact libraries in ROCm software stack

.. list-table:: Environment variables that impact libraries in ROCm software stack
    :header-rows: 1
    :name: clr-env-variables-general-table

    *
      - Environment variable
      - Values
      - Description
    *
      - HIP_PLATFORM

>       - amd, nvidia

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - AMD, Nvidia
```

      - The platform where the HIP backend is used. If HIP_PLATFORM is not set, then hipcc will attempt to auto-detect based on if nvcc is found.
    *
      - ROCM_BUILD_ID
      - 
      - Build ID to identify the release of a given package. End users should not set this.
    *
      - ROCM_PATH
      - /opt/rocm
      - The path of the installed ROCm software stack.
    *
      - HIP_PATH
      - 

>       - The path of the HIP sdk.

Reviewer 2: SDK

Environment variables effecting the hipamd backend of project clr.

.. list-table:: Environment variables effecting the hipamd backend of project clr
    :header-rows: 1
    :name: clr-env-variables-hipamd-table

    *
      - Environment variable
      - Values
      - Description
    *
      - ROCM_LIBPATCH_VERSION
      - 50000, 60020...
      - The ROCm version in the format of an integer. The format is MAJOR * 10000 + MINOR * 100 + PATCH
    *
      - ROCM_RPATH
      - 
      - The rpath for ROCm libraries.
    *
      - HIP_FORCE_QUEUE_PROFILING
      - ON, OFF
      - Used to run the app as if it were run in rocprof. Forces command queue profiling on by default.
    *
      - HSAKMT_DEBUG_LEVEL
      - 1, 2, ... 7
      - When set to the highest level, the system will print memory allocation info.

Environment variables effecting the rocclr backend of project clr.

.. list-table:: Environment variables effecting the rocclr backend of project clr
    :header-rows: 1
    :name: clr-env-variables-rocclr-table

    *
      - Environment variable
      - Values
      - Description
    *
      - 
      - 

>       - 

Reviewer 6: i guess i'll remove it. i didn't find anything that specifically affected this one

      - ROC_HMM_FLAGS
      - uint
      - 0
      - ROCm HMM configuration flags
    *
      - GPU_DEVICE_ORDINAL
      - cstring
      - 
      - Select the device ordinal , comma separated list of available devices
    *
      - REMOTE_ALLOC
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Use remote memory for the global heap allocation
    *
      - GPU_CP_DMA_COPY_SIZE
      - uint
      - 1
      - Set maximum size of CP DMA copy in KiB
    *
      - GPU_MAX_HEAP_SIZE
      - uint
      - 100
      - Set maximum size of the GPU heap to % of board memory
    *
      - GPU_STAGING_BUFFER_SIZE
      - uint
      - 4
      - Size of the GPU staging buffer in MiB
    *
      - GPU_DUMP_BLIT_KERNELS
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Dump the kernels for blit manager
    *
      - GPU_BLIT_ENGINE_TYPE
      - uint
      - 0x0
      - Blit engine type: 0 - Default, 1 - Host, 2 - CAL, 3 - Kernel
    *
      - GPU_FLUSH_ON_EXECUTION
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Submit commands to HW on every operation. 0 - Disable, 1 - Enable
    *
      - CL_KHR_FP64
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enable/Disable support for double precision
    *
      - AMD_OCL_BUILD_OPTIONS
      - cstring
      - 0

>       - Set clBuildProgram,  and clCompileProgram, 's options , override

Reviewer 7: This sentence is a bit unclear, not sure if I got it right. What's the word "override" doing there? Does it override the default options? Or the ones given in the program?
```suggestion
      - Set clBuildProgram's, and clCompileProgram's options , override
```

Reviewer 2: It should be something different. The 's possessive is grammatically incorrect.

    *
      - AMD_OCL_BUILD_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 0

>       - Append clBuildProgram,  and clCompileProgram, 's options

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Append to clBuildProgram's, and clCompileProgram's options
```

Reviewer 2: It should be something different. The 's possessive is grammatically incorrect.

    *
      - AMD_OCL_LINK_OPTIONS
      - cstring
      - 0

>       - Set clLinkProgram, 's options , override

Reviewer 7: Again, the "override" is not specified very well
```suggestion
      - Set clLinkProgram's options, override
```

Reviewer 2: It should be something different. The 's possessive is grammatically incorrect.

    *
      - AMD_OCL_LINK_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 0

>       - Append clLinkProgram, 's options

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Append to clLinkProgram's options
```

    *

>       - GPU_PINNED_XFER_SIZE
>       - size_t
>       - 32
>       - The pinned buffer size for pinning in read/write transfers in MiB
>     *
>       - GPU_PINNED_MIN_XFER_SIZE
>       - size_t
>       - 128
>       - The minimal buffer size for pinned read/write transfers in MiB

Reviewer 7: Why is the minimal buffer size bigger than the "normal" buffer size?
```suggestion
      - GPU_PINNED_XFER_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 32
      - The buffer size for pinning in read/write transfers in MiB
    *
      - GPU_PINNED_MIN_XFER_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 128
      - The minimal buffer size for pinned read/write transfers in MiB
```

    *
      - GPU_RESOURCE_CACHE_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 64
      - The resource cache size in MB
    *
      - GPU_MAX_SUBALLOC_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 4096
      - The maximum size accepted for suballocaitons in KB
    *
      - GPU_NUM_MEM_DEPENDENCY
      - size_t
      - 256
      - Number of memory objects for dependency tracking
    *
      - GPU_XFER_BUFFER_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 0
      - Transfer buffer size for image copy optimization in KB
    *
      - GPU_IMAGE_DMA
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enable DRM DMA for image transfers
    *
      - GPU_SINGLE_ALLOC_PERCENT
      - uint
      - 85
      - Maximum size of a single allocation as percentage of total
    *
      - GPU_NUM_COMPUTE_RINGS
      - uint
      - 2

>       - GPU number of compute rings. 0 - disabled, 1 , 2,.. - the number of compute rings

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - GPU number of compute rings. 0 - disabled, 1, 2, ... - the number of compute rings
```

    *
      - GPU_ENABLE_WGP_MODE
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enables WGP Mode in HW if available
    *
      - GPU_DUMP_CODE_OBJECT
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enable dump code object
    *
      - GPU_MAX_USWC_ALLOC_SIZE
      - uint
      - 2048
      - Set a limit in Mb on the maximum USWC allocation size, -1 = No limit
    *
      - AMD_SERIALIZE_KERNEL
      - uint
      - 0
      - Serialize kernel enqueue, 0x1 = Wait for completion before enqueue, 0x2 = Wait for completion after enqueue 0x3 = both
    *
      - AMD_SERIALIZE_COPY
      - uint
      - 0
      - Serialize copies, 0x1 = Wait for completion before enqueue, 0x2 = Wait for completion after enqueue 0x3 = both
    *
      - HIP_LAUNCH_BLOCKING
      - uint
      - 0
      - Serialize kernel enqueue 0x1 = Wait for completion after enqueue, same as AMD_SERIALIZE_KERNEL=2
    *
      - PAL_ALWAYS_RESIDENT
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Force memory resources to become resident at allocation time
    *
      - HIP_HOST_COHERENT
      - uint
      - 0
      - Coherent memory in hipHostMalloc
    *
      - AMD_OPT_FLUSH
      - uint
      - 1

>       - Kernel flush option , 0x0 = Use system-scope fence operations. 0x1 = Use device-scope fence operations when possible.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Kernel flush option, 0x0 = Use system-scope fence operations. 0x1 = Use device-scope fence operations when possible.
```

      - Reserve free mem reporting in Mb, 0 = Disable
    *
      - GPU_FORCE_BLIT_COPY_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 0
      - Size in KB of the threshold below which to force blit instead for sdma
    *
      - ROC_ACTIVE_WAIT_TIMEOUT
      - uint
      - 0
      - Forces active wait of GPU interrup for the timeout, us unit
    *
      - ROC_ENABLE_LARGE_BAR
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enable Large Bar if supported by the device
    *
      - ROC_CPU_WAIT_FOR_SIGNAL
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enable CPU wait for dependent HSA signals.
    *
      - ROC_SYSTEM_SCOPE_SIGNAL
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Enable system scope for signals, uses interrupts.
    *
      - GPU_FORCE_QUEUE_PROFILING
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Force command queue profiling by default
    *
      - HIP_MEM_POOL_SUPPORT
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enables memory pool support in HIP
    *
      - HIP_MEM_POOL_USE_VM
      - bool
      - IS_WINDOWS
      - Enables memory pool support in HIP
    *
      - PAL_HIP_IPC_FLAG
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enable interprocess flag for device allocation in PAL HIP
    *
      - PAL_FORCE_ASIC_REVISION
      - uint
      - 0

>       - Force a specific asic revision for all devices

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Force a specific ASIC revision for all devices
```
ASIC is an acronym. Also then "asic" doesn't have to be added to the wordlist

    *
      - PAL_EMBED_KERNEL_MD
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enables writing kernel metadata into command buffers.
    *
      - ROC_GLOBAL_CU_MASK
      - cstring
      - 

>       - Sets a global CU mask , entered as hex value for all queues, Each active bit represents using one CU , e.g., 0xf enables only 4 CUs

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Sets a global CU mask , entered as hex value for all queues. Each active bit represents using one CU, e.g. 0xf enables only 4 CUs
```

    *
      - AMD_LOG_LEVEL_FILE
      - cstring

>       - 
>       - Set output file for AMD_LOG_LEVEL, Default is stderr

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - 
      - Set output file for AMD_LOG_LEVEL. Default is stderr
```
Also shouldn't the default be mentioned in the column for default values? Unless this is just the default behaviour, but not the default value for the environment variable

    *
      - PAL_PREPINNED_MEMORY_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 64
      - Size in KBytes of prepinned memory
    *
      - AMD_CPU_AFFINITY
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Reset CPU affinity of any runtime threads
    *
      - ROC_USE_FGS_KERNARG
      - bool
      - TRUE

>       - Use fine grain kernel args segment for supported asics

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Use fine grain kernel args segment for supported ASICs
```
`ASICs` is already in the word list, then `asics` doesn't have to be added

    *
      - ROC_P2P_SDMA_SIZE
      - uint
      - 1024
      - The minimum size in KB for P2P transfer with SDMA
    *
      - ROC_AQL_QUEUE_SIZE
      - uint
      - 16384
      - AQL queue size in AQL packets
    *
      - ROC_SIGNAL_POOL_SIZE
      - uint
      - 32
      - Initial size of HSA signal pool
    *
      - DEBUG_CLR_LIMIT_BLIT_WG
      - uint
      - 16
      - Limit the number of workgroups in blit operations
    *
      - ROC_SKIP_KERNEL_ARG_COPY
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - If true, then runtime can skip kernel arg copy
    *
      - GPU_STREAMOPS_CP_WAIT
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Force the stream wait memory operation to wait on CP.
    *
      - HIP_USE_RUNTIME_UNBUNDLER
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Force this to use Runtime code object unbundler.
    *
      - HIPRTC_USE_RUNTIME_UNBUNDLER
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Set this to true to force runtime unbundler in hiprtc.
    *
      - HIP_INITIAL_DM_SIZE
      - size_t

>       - 8 * Mi
>       - Set initial heap size for device malloc.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - 8388608
      - Set initial heap size for device malloc. The default value corresponds to 8 MiB
```
I'm quite sure, that if the type is `size_t`, the default value is not `8 * Mi`. I just assumed, that the unit is bytes.

    *
      - HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG
      - bool
      - 0
      - Force device mem for kernel args.
    *
      - DEBUG_CLR_GRAPH_PACKET_CAPTURE
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Enable/Disable graph packet capturing
    *
      - GPU_DEBUG_ENABLE
      - bool
      - FALSE

>       - Enables collection of extra info for debugger at some perf cost

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Enables collection of extra info for debugger at some performance cost
```
Then you don't have to add "perf" to the wordlist

    *
      - HIPRTC_COMPILE_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 
      - Set compile options needed for hiprtc compilation
    *
      - HIPRTC_LINK_OPTIONS_APPEND
      - cstring
      - 
      - Set link options needed for hiprtc compilation
    *
      - HIP_VMEM_MANAGE_SUPPORT
      - bool
      - TRUE
      - Virtual Memory Management Support
    *
      - HIPCC_VERBOSE
      - uint
      - 0

>       - How much extra info to show during build. E.G: compiler flags, paths.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - How much extra info to show during build. E.g. compiler flags, paths.
```

    *
      - ROCPROFILER_REGISTER_ROOT
      - cstring
      - 
      - The path to the rocProfiler.

AMD rocclr environment variables at debug build:

.. list-table:: AMD rocclr environment variables
    :header-rows: 1
    :name: rocclr-env-variables-debug-table

    *
      - Environment variable
      - Variable type

>       - Default type

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - Default value
```

      - Description
    *
      - DEBUG_GPU_FLAGS
      - uint
      - 0
      - The debug options for GPU device
    *
      - CPU_MEMORY_GUARD_PAGES
      - bool
      - FALSE
      - Use guard pages for CPU memory
    *
      - CPU_MEMORY_GUARD_PAGE_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 64
      - Size in KB of CPU memory guard page
    *
      - CPU_MEMORY_ALIGNMENT_SIZE
      - size_t
      - 256
      - Size in bytes for the default alignment for guarded memory on CPU
    *
      - PARAMETERS_MIN_ALIGNMENT
      - size_t
      - NATIVE_ALIGNMENT_SIZE
      - Minimum alignment required for the abstract parameters stack
    *
      - MEMOBJ_BASE_ADDR_ALIGN

>       - size_t
>       - 4*Ki
>       - Alignment of the base address of any allocate memory object

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      - size_t
      - 4096
      - Alignment of the base address of any allocate memory object. The default value corresponds to 4 KiB.
```

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
ROCm environment variables
*************************************************************

The following table lists the most commonly used environment variables in the ROCm software stack. These variables help to perform simple tasks such as building a ROCm library or running applications on AMDGPUs.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``HIP_PATH``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``
        | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform, if it can find NVCC.
      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

CLR environment variables
=========================

> AMD Common Language Runtime (CLR) library contains source codes for AMD's compute languages runtimes: HIP and OpenCL™. The environment variables affecting this library can also effect HIP and OpenCL™ libraries or applications. 

Reviewer 8: Remove TM symbol in the second occurrence. It should be used only in the first occurrence.

> AMD Common Language Runtime (CLR) library contains source codes for AMD's compute languages runtimes: HIP and OpenCL™. The environment variables affecting this library can also effect HIP and OpenCL™ libraries or applications. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
AMD Common Language Runtime (CLR) library contains source codes for AMD's compute languages runtimes: 
``hipamd``: Contains implementation of HIP language
``opencl``: Contains implementation of OpenCL™
``rocclr``:  Contains common runtime used in HIP and OpenCL
The environment variables affecting the CLR library might affect HIP and OpenCL libraries or applications. 
```

These environment variables are listed in the following table:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``
        | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform if it can find NVCC.
      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

    * - | ``HSA_DISABLE_CACHE``
        | Disables the L2 cache.
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROCM_HEADER_WRAPPER_WERROR``
        | Causes errors to be emitted instead of warnings.
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

> The following table lists the environment variables that affect the OpenCL and HIP implementation of CLR project.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
The following table lists the environment variables that affect the OpenCL and HIP implementation of the CLR project.
```

        | :cpp:`MAJOR * 10000 + MINOR * 100 + PATCH`
      - 50000, 60020...

    * - | ``CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_RELEASE``
        | This is the numbering of the Debian package itself, i.e., the version of the packaging and not the version of the content.
      - 1, 2, 3...

    * - | ``CPACK_RPM_PACKAGE_RELEASE``
        | This is the numbering of the RPM package itself, i.e., the version of the packaging and not the version of the content.
      - 1, 2, 3...

The following table lists the environment variables that affect only the HIP implementation of the CLR project.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``HIP_FORCE_QUEUE_PROFILING``
        | Simulates the application to run in rocprof by forcing command queue profiling to ``on`` by default.
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION``
        | Overrides the target version; used to enable HIP usage on unsupported hardware.
      - 11.0.0, 10.3.0

    * - | ``HSAKMT_DEBUG_LEVEL``
        | When set to the highest level, the system prints memory allocation information.
      - 1, 2, ... 7

> The following table lists the environment variables that affect the common runtime used in HIP and OpenCL (ROCclr) of the CLR project.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
The following table lists the environment variables that affect ``rocclr`` of the CLR project.
```

.. https://github.com/ROCm/clr/blob/develop/rocclr/utils/flags.hpp

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 35,14,51

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Default value**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``AMD_CPU_AFFINITY``
        | Resets CPU affinity of any runtime threads
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_DIRECT_DISPATCH``
        | Enables direct kernel dispatch. Currently available on Linux; under development for Windows.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_GPU_FORCE_SINGLE_FP_DENORM``
        | Forces denormalization for single precision.
      - ``-1``
      - | -1: Don't force 
        | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_LEVEL``
        | Enables HIP log on various level.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable log.
        | 1: Enables log on error level.
        | 2: Enables log on warning and lower levels.
        | 3: Enables log on information and lower levels.
        | 4: Enables log on debug and lower levels.

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_LEVEL_FILE``
        | Sets output file for ``AMD_LOG_LEVEL``.
      - stderr output
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_MASK``

>         | Filter the HIP log by different events. The `actual full list <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/blob/develop/rocclr/utils/debug.hpp#L40>`_.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Specifies HIP log filters. Here is the ` complete list of log masks <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/blob/develop/rocclr/utils/debug.hpp#L40>`_.
```

      - ``0x7FFFFFFF``
      - | 0x1: Log API calls.
        | 0x2: Kernel and copy commands and barriers.
        | 0x4: Synchronization and waiting for commands to finish.
        | 0x8: Decode and display AQL packets.
        | 0x10: Queue commands and queue contents.
        | 0x20: Signal creation, allocation, pool.
        | 0x40: Locks and thread-safety code.
        | 0x80: Kernel creations and arguments, etc.
        | 0x100: Copy debug.
        | 0x200: Detailed copy debug.
        | 0x400: Resource allocation, performance-impacting events.
        | 0x800: Initialization and shutdown.
        | 0x1000: Misc debug, not yet classified.
        | 0x2000: Show raw bytes of AQL packet.
        | 0x4000: Show code creation debug.
        | 0x8000: More detailed command info, including barrier commands.
        | 0x10000: Log message location.
        | 0x20000: Memory allocation.
        | 0x40000: Memory pool allocation, including memory in graphs.
        | 0x80000: Timestamp details.
        | 0xFFFFFFFF: Log always even mask flag is zero.

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_BUILD_OPTIONS``

>         | Sets the options for ``clBuildProgram`` and ``clCompileProgram``. This variable override the previously set options.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Sets the options for ``clBuildProgram`` and ``clCompileProgram``. This variable overrides the previously set options.
```

      - None
      - A value of ``0,2`` exposes devices 1 and 3 in the system.

    * - | ``GPU_DUMP_BLIT_KERNELS``
        | Controls dumping of the kernels for blit manager.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_DUMP_CODE_OBJECT``
        | Controls dumping of code object.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_COOP_GROUPS``
        | Enables cooperative group launch.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_HW_P2P``
        | Enables hardware peer to peer (P2P) path.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_LC``
        | Enables LC path.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_PAL``
        | Specifies platform abstraction library (PAL) backend.
      - ``2``
      - | 0: ROC
        | 1: PAL
        | 2: ROC or PAL

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_WAVE32_MODE``
        | Enables Wave32 compilation in hardware, if available.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_WGP_MODE``
        | Enables WGP Mode in hardware, if available. Workgroups of waves are

>         | dispatched in one of two modes: CU or WGP.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | dispatched in one of the two modes: CU or WGP.
```

      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_GLOBAL_CU_MASK``
        | Sets a global CU mask, entered as hex value for all queues. Each active bit represents one CU, e.g., ``0xf`` enables 4 CUs.
      - None
      - 

    * - | ``ROC_HMM_FLAGS``
        | Sets ROCm HMM configuration flags.
      - ``0``: Disabled
      - 

    * - | ``ROC_P2P_SDMA_SIZE``
        | Sets the minimum size in KB for peer to peer (P2P) transfer with SDMA.
      - ``1024``: 1 MB
      -

    * - | ``ROC_SIGNAL_POOL_SIZE``
        | Sets the initial size for HSA signal pool.
      - ``32``
      - 

    * - | ``ROC_SKIP_KERNEL_ARG_COPY``
        | Allows the runtime to skip kernel argument copy.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_SYSTEM_SCOPE_SIGNAL``
        | Enable system scope for signals, uses interrupts.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_USE_FGS_KERNARG``
        | Enables use of fine grain kernel arguments segment for supported ASICs.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROCPROFILER_REGISTER_ROOT``
        | Sets the path to ``rocProfiler``.
      - None
      - 

> The following table lists the debug environment variables that affect the common runtime used in HIP and OpenCL (ROCclr) of the CLR project. These environment variables can only be set during DEBUG build.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
The following table lists the debug environment variables that affect ``rocclr`` of the CLR project. These environment variables can only be set during DEBUG build.
```

        | Sets the minimum buffer size (in MB) for pinned read and write transfers.
      - ``128``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_PINNED_XFER_SIZE``
        | Sets the buffer size (in MB) for pinning in read and write transfers.
      - ``32``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_PRINT_CHILD_KERNEL``
        | Prints the specified number of child kernels.
      - ``0``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_RESOURCE_CACHE_SIZE``
        | Sets the resource cache size in MB.
      - ``64``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_SINGLE_ALLOC_PERCENT``
        | Maximum size of a single allocation as percentage of total.
      - ``85``
      - 

    * - | ``GPU_STAGING_BUFFER_SIZE``
        | Size of the GPU staging buffer in megabyte (MB).
      - ``4``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_STREAMOPS_CP_WAIT``
        | Force the stream memory operation to wait on CP.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_USE_DEVICE_QUEUE``
        | Use a dedicated device queue for the actual submissions.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_WAVES_PER_SIMD``
        | Force the number of waves per SIMD. 1-10
      - ``0``
      - 

    * - | ``GPU_XFER_BUFFER_SIZE``

>         | Transfer buffer size for image copy optimization in KB.

Author: Fixed.

      - ``0``
      -
        
    * - | ``HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG``

>         | Force device memory for kernel args.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Enables device memory for kernel arguments.
```

Author: Here the forces is the correct phrase. pushed my version.

      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HIP_HIDDEN_FREE_MEM``

>         | Amount of memory to hide from the free memory reported by hipMemGetInfo.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Specifies the amount of memory to hide from the free memory reported by ``hipMemGetInfo``.
```

Author: Fixed.

>       - ``0``

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
      - ``0``: Disable
```

Author: Fixed.

>       - 0: Disable

Reviewer 8: Remove this entry

Author: DONE.

    * - | ``HIP_HOST_COHERENT``

>         | Coherent memory in ``hipHostMalloc``.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Specifies if the memory is coherent between the host and GPU in ``hipHostMalloc``.
```

Author: Fixed.

      - ``0``

>       - | 0: Memory is not coherent between host and GPU.
>         | 1: Memory is coherent with host.
>         | Environment variable has effect, if:
>         | - One of the HostMalloc flags is set.
>         | - ``hipHostMallocCoherent=0``
>         | - ``hipHostMallocNonCoherent=0``
>         | - ``hipHostMallocMapped=0``

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
      - | 0: Memory is not coherent.
        | 1: Memory is coherent.
        | Environment variable has effect, if one of the following ``HostMalloc`` flags is set.
        | - ``hipHostMallocCoherent=1``
        | - ``hipHostMallocNonCoherent=1``
        | - ``hipHostMallocMapped=1``
```
To set flag such as hipHostMallocCoherent and the other two, don't we need a value of 1? The value 0 doesn't look right to me.

Author: Please check my fix.

    * - | ``HIP_INITIAL_DM_SIZE``

>         | Set initial heap size for device malloc.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Sets the initial heap size for device malloc.
```

>       - ``8388608``

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
      - 8 MB or 8388608 Bytes
```

>       - The default value corresponds to 8 MB. 

Reviewer 8: Remove this entry

    * - | ``HIP_LAUNCH_BLOCKING``

>         | Used for serialization on kernel execution.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Controls serialization of kernel execution.
```

      - ``0``

>       - | 0: Disable. Kernel executes normally.
>         | 1: Enable. Serializes kernel enqueue, behaves the same as ``AMD_SERIALIZE_KERNEL``.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
      - | 0: Disable. Kernel executes normally.
        | 1: Enable. Serializes kernel execution; behaves similar to ``AMD_SERIALIZE_KERNEL``.
```

    * - | ``HIP_MEM_POOL_SUPPORT``
        | Enables memory pool support in HIP.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HIP_MEM_POOL_USE_VM``

>         | Enables memory pool support in HIP.

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

      - | ``0``: other OS

>         | ``1``: Windows

Author: Fixed. Please check.

>         | ``1``: Windows

Reviewer 8: I still can't make sense of it.  No need to add "default" as we are listing the values under default value column already. Let's wait for the env variable description, then only we can make sense of the values.

      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HIP_USE_RUNTIME_UNBUNDLER``
        | Force this to use Runtime code object unbundler.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HIP_VISIBLE_DEVICES``
        | Only devices whose index is present in the sequence are visible to HIP
      - Unset
      - 0,1,2: Depending on the number of devices on the system.

    * - | ``HIP_VMEM_MANAGE_SUPPORT``
        | Virtual Memory Management Support.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HIPCC_VERBOSE``
        | How much extra info to show during build. E.g: compiler flags, paths.
      - ``0``
      - 

    * - | ``HIPRTC_COMPILE_OPTIONS_APPEND``
        | Set compile options needed for hiprtc compilation.
      - Unset
      - 

    * - | ``HIPRTC_LINK_OPTIONS_APPEND``
        | Set link options needed for hiprtc compilation.
      - Unset

>       - 

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HSA_KERNARG_POOL_SIZE``
        | Kernel arguments pool size.
      - ``1048576``
      - The default value corresponds to 1 megabyte (MB).

    * - | ``HSA_LOCAL_MEMORY_ENABLE``
        | Enable HSA device local memory usage.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``PAL_DISABLE_SDMA``
        | Disable SDMA for PAL.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Enable SDMA for PAL.
        | 1: Disable SDMA for PAL.

    * - | ``PAL_MALL_POLICY``
        | Controls the behaviour of allocations with respect to the MALL.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: MALL policy is decided by KMD.
        | 1: Allocations are never put through the MALL.
        | 2: Allocations will always be put through the MALL.

    * - | ``PAL_ALWAYS_RESIDENT``
        | Force memory resources to become resident at allocation time.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``PAL_EMBED_KERNEL_MD``
        | Enables writing kernel metadata into command buffers.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``PAL_FORCE_ASIC_REVISION``
        | Force a specific ASIC revision for all devices.
      - ``0``

>       -

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

        | Size of prepinned memory.
      - ``64``
      -

    * - | ``PAL_RGP_DISP_COUNT``
        | The number of dispatches for RGP capture with SQTT.
      - ``10000``
      -

    * - | ``REMOTE_ALLOC``
        | Use remote memory for the global heap allocation.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_ACTIVE_WAIT_TIMEOUT``
        | Forces active wait of GPU interrupt for the timeout in us.
      - ``0``
      -

    * - | ``ROC_AQL_QUEUE_SIZE``
        | AQL queue size in the AQL packets in Bytes.
      - ``16384``
      - The default value corresponds to 16 KB.

    * - | ``ROC_CPU_WAIT_FOR_SIGNAL``
        | Enable CPU wait for dependent HSA signals.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_ENABLE_LARGE_BAR``
        | Enable Large Bar if supported by the device.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_GLOBAL_CU_MASK``
        | Sets a global CU mask, entered as hex value for all queues, Each active bit represents using one CU, e.g. ``0xf`` enables only 4 CUs
      - Unset
      - 

    * - | ``ROC_HMM_FLAGS``
        | ROCm HMM configuration flags.
      - ``0``

>       - 

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

    * - | ``ROC_P2P_SDMA_SIZE``
        | The minimum size in KB for peer to peer (P2P) transfer with SDMA.
      - ``1024``
      - The default value corresponds to 1 megabyte (MB).

    * - | ``ROC_SIGNAL_POOL_SIZE``
        | Initial size of HSA signal pool.

>       - ``32``

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

      - 

    * - | ``ROC_SKIP_KERNEL_ARG_COPY``
        | If ``true``, then runtime can skip kernel arg copy.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_SYSTEM_SCOPE_SIGNAL``

>         | Enable system scope for signals, uses interrupts.

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROC_USE_FGS_KERNARG``
        | Use fine grain kernel arguments segment for supported ASICs.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROCPROFILER_REGISTER_ROOT``
        | The path to the rocProfiler.
      - Unset
      - 

The following table lists debug environment variables affecting common runtime used in HIP and OpenCL (ROCclr) of clr project. These variables only settable during DEBUG build.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 35,14,51

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Default value**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_SUBST_OBJFILE``
        | Specify binary substitution config file for OpenCL.
      - Unset
      - 

    * - | ``CPU_MEMORY_ALIGNMENT_SIZE``
        | Size in bytes for the default alignment for guarded memory on CPU.
      - 256
      -

    * - | ``CPU_MEMORY_GUARD_PAGE_SIZE``
        | Size in KB of CPU memory guard page.
      - ``64``
      - The default value corresponds to 64 KB. 

    * - | ``CPU_MEMORY_GUARD_PAGES``
        | Use guard pages for CPU memory
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``MEMOBJ_BASE_ADDR_ALIGN``

>         | Alignment of the base address of any allocate memory object.

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

      - ``4096``
      - The default value corresponds to 4 KB. 

    * - | ``PARAMETERS_MIN_ALIGNMENT``
        | Minimum alignment required for the abstract parameters stack.
      - 64 at ``__AVX512F__``, 32 at ``__AVX__`` and 16 at other cases
      -

ROCR-Runtime Environment Variables
==================================

.. https://github.com/ROCm/ROCR-Runtime/blob/master/src/core/util/flag.h
.. We need to extend the following list.

AMD ROCR-Runtime environment variables:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 35,14,51

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Default value**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES``
        | A list of device indices or UUIDs that will be exposed to applications.
      - Unset

>       - ``0,GPU-DEADBEEFDEADBEEF``

Author: It was correct originally.

    * - | ``HSA_SCRATCH_MEM``
        | Maximum amount of scratch memory that can be used per process per gpu.

>       -

Author: Sent questions to Devs.

    * - | ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA``
        | Enables the use of DMA engines in all copy directions (Host-to-Device, Device-to-Host, Device-to-Device), when using any of the following APIs:
        | ``hsa_memory_copy``, 
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_fill``, 
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy``, 
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy_on_engine``.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HSA_ENABLE_PEER_SDMA``
        | Enables the use of DMA engines for Device-to-Device copies, when using any of the following APIs:
        | ``hsa_memory_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy_on_engine``.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable
        |
        | The value of ``HSA_ENABLE_PEER_SDMA`` is ignored,
        | if ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA`` set to ``0``.

rocPRIM environment variables
=============================

Environment variables of rocPRIM library.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``HIP_PATH``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.

Author: This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set. That's the only difference, which I can see.

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.

Reviewer 8: So both variables serve the same purpose?

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.

Author: Yes. The only difference I can see, that one of them has a "priority". I will mention this to @stanleytsang-amd.

      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``VCPKG_PATH``
        | The path of the vcpkg package manager on Microsoft Windows. On Linux 
        | this environment variable has no effect.
      - ``C:/github/vcpkg``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``ROCM_CMAKE_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm cmake file on Microsoft Windows.
      - ``C:/hipSDK``

    * - | ``HIPCC_COMPILE_FLAGS_APPEND``
        | Extra amdclang++ compiler flags on Linux. Ignored, if CXX environment
        | variable is set.
      - Unset

    * - | ``ROCPRIM_USE_HMM``
        | The tests suite uses unified memory, if it's set to 1 during the tests
        | run.

>       - Unset

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``CTEST_RESOURCE_GROUP_0``
        | Used by CI, and helps to group the tests for different CI steps. Most
        | users should ignore this.
      - Unset

hipCUB environment variables
============================

Environment variables of hipCUB library.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**

>       - **Usage**

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``HIP_PATH``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.

Author: This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set. That's the only difference, which I can see.

      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``VCPKG_PATH``
        | The path of the vcpkg package manager on Microsoft Windows. On Linux 
        | this environment variable has no effect.
      - ``C:/github/vcpkg``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``HIPCC_COMPILE_FLAGS_APPEND``
        | Extra amdclang or amdclang++ compiler flags on Linux. 
        | amdclang++ ignores this, if CXX environment variable is set.
        | amdclang ignores this, if CC environment variable is set.
      - Unset

    * - | ``HIPCUB_USE_HMM``
        | The tests suite uses unified memory, if it's set to 1 during the tests
        | run.
      - Unset

    * - | ``CTEST_RESOURCE_GROUP_0``
        | Used by CI, and helps to group the tests for different CI steps. Most
        | users should ignore this.

>       - Unset

Author: DONE.

.. meta::
    :description: Environment variables reference
    :keywords: AMD, ROCm, environment variables, environment, reference

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
Environment variables reference
*************************************************************

> ROCm common and important Environment Variables

Author: Fixed.

===============================================

The following table contains the environment variables that are most commonly used in the ROCm software stack. These variables can be useful for simple tasks, like building a ROCm library or running applications on AMD cards.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

>     * - **Environment variable**

Author: I would like to keep it, because we can have long tables, and it can help the reader eyes, to see the heading.

>     * - **Environment variable**

Author: Also using this method at multiple location. https://github.com/ROCm/HIP/blob/develop/docs/how-to/debugging.rst

>       - **Usage**

Author: I can change, but it's used multiple location, so the effect of the request is larger:
https://github.com/ROCm/HIP/blob/develop/docs/how-to/debugging.rst

Also, sometimes really adding notes about the ENV variable usage in that section. Should we really change?

>       - **Usage**

Reviewer 8: @neon60 Yes, change it please. You are mentioning values there and not information on how to use the variables. Also, I have ensured in my suggestions that this column contains values only.

>       - **Usage**

Author: Changed.

> 

Reviewer 8: Add another column titled "Description" and move the description to this second column. Don't write it along with the environment variable.

Author: We had that version and the text not fitting well. The description is better positioned, if it goes under the function or env variable.

examples:
https://github.com/ROCm/HIP/blob/develop/docs/reference/kernel_language.rst

Reviewer 8: @lpaoletti Is it okay to write description in the same column as env variable?

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_PATH``

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. On Linux the ``ROCM_PATH``

Author: Fixed now. Please check the new version.

        | environment variable used to set different ROCm root path.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux. On Microsoft 

>         | Windows the ``HIP_DIR`` environment variable used to set 

Author: Fixed.

        | different HIP SDK path.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``
        | The platform HIP is targeting. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC
        | will attempt to auto-detect based on if NVCC is found.
      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

CLR Environment Variables
=========================

AMD Common Language Runtime (clr) contains source codes for AMD's compute languages runtimes: **HIP** and **OpenCL™**. The environment variables, which are affecting this library can effect **HIP** and **OpenCL™** libraries or applications too.

> The following table contains the environment variables affecting all backends of project clr.

Author: Removed.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``

>         | The platform HIP is targeting. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC will attempt to auto-detect based on if NVCC is found.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform if it can find NVCC.
```

      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

    * - | ``HSA_DISABLE_CACHE``

>         | Used to disable L2 cache.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Disables the L2 cache.
```

      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``ROCM_HEADER_WRAPPER_WERROR``
        | Causes errors to be emitted instead of warnings.
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

The following table contains the environment variables affecting the OpenCL and hipamd backend of project clr.

> 

Author: Information changed.

> 

Reviewer 8: Can't comment on the authenticity of the changed information. From editorial review POV, it looks ok.

        | :cpp:`MAJOR * 10000 + MINOR * 100 + PATCH`
      - 50000, 60020...

    * - | ``CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_RELEASE``
        | This is the numbering of the Debian package itself, i.e. the version of the packaging and not the version of the content.
      - 1, 2, 3...

    * - | ``CPACK_RPM_PACKAGE_RELEASE``
        | This is the numbering of the RPM package itself, i.e. the version of the packaging and not the version of the content.
      - 1, 2, 3...

The following table contains the environment variables affecting the hipamd backend of project clr.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``HIP_FORCE_QUEUE_PROFILING``
        | Used to run the app as if it were run in rocprof. Forces command queue profiling on by default.
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION``
        | Override the target version. Used to enable HIP usage on unsupported hardware.
      - 11.0.0, 10.3.0

    * - | ``HSAKMT_DEBUG_LEVEL``
        | When set to the highest level, the system will print memory allocation info.
      - 1, 2, ... 7

> rocclr Environment Variables

Author: I try to follow the CLR project organization here. https://github.com/ROCm/clr.

## Project Organisation

- `hipamd` - contains implementation of `HIP` language on AMD platform. It is hosted at [ROCm/clr/hipamd](https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/hipamd)
- `opencl` - contains implementation of [OpenCL™](https://www.khronos.org/opencl/) on AMD platform. Now it is hosted at [ROCm/clr/opencl](https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/opencl)
- `rocclr` - contains common runtime used in `HIP` and `OpenCL™`. This is hosted at [ROCm/clr/rocclr](https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/rocclr)

> rocclr Environment Variables

Reviewer 8: ok. Based on the above information, I have changed all occurrences of ROCclr to ``rocclr``. Also, added information in the introduction part to make these things clear. You can find it in my suggestions. 
I can't find the heading rocclr environment variables anymore. Please add it.

----------------------------

> AMD rocclr environment variables at release build:

Author: Fixed, please check the fix.

> AMD rocclr environment variables at release build:

Reviewer 8: I can't find this anymore.

.. https://github.com/ROCm/clr/blob/develop/rocclr/utils/flags.hpp

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 35,14,51

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Default value**
      - **Usage**

    * - | ``AMD_CPU_AFFINITY``

>         | Reset CPU affinity of any runtime threads

Author: Information changes. Check my fix.

>         | Reset CPU affinity of any runtime threads

Reviewer 8: Any reasons why you want to use "any". I think the sentence "a runtime thread" is a better way to imply the same meaning.

      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_DIRECT_DISPATCH``
        | Enable direct kernel dispatch (Currently for Linux; under development for Windows).
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_GPU_FORCE_SINGLE_FP_DENORM``

>         | Force denorm for single precision.

Author: Fixed.

      - ``-1``
      - | -1: Don't force 
        | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_LEVEL``
        | Enable HIP log on different Level.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable log. 
        | 1: Enable log on error level.
        | 2: Enable log on warning and below levels.

>         | 0x3: Enable log on information and below levels.

Author: Fixed.

        | 0x4: Decode and display AQL packets.

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_LEVEL_FILE``
        | Set output file for AMD_LOG_LEVEL.
      - stderr output
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_LOG_MASK``

>         | Enable HIP log on different level.

Reviewer 8: Added suggestion

      - ``0x7FFFFFFF``
      - | 0x1: Log API calls.

>         | 0x02: Kernel and Copy Commands and Barriers.

Author: Fixed.

        | 0x4: Synchronization and waiting for commands to finish.
        | 0x8: Enable log on information and below levels.
        | 0x20: Queue commands and queue contents.
        | 0x40: Signal creation, allocation, pool.
        | 0x80: Locks and thread-safety code.
        | 0x100: Copy debug.
        | 0x200: Detailed copy debug.
        | 0x400: Resource allocation, performance-impacting events.
        | 0x800: Initialization and shutdown.
        | 0x1000: Misc debug, not yet classified.
        | 0x2000: Show raw bytes of AQL packet.
        | 0x4000: Show code creation debug.
        | 0x8000: More detailed command info, including barrier commands.
        | 0x10000: Log message location.
        | 0xFFFFFFFF: Log always even mask flag is zero.

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_BUILD_OPTIONS``

>         | Set the options for clBuildProgram and clCompileProgram, override.

Author: Pushed my version, where I explained override.

      - Unset by default.
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_BUILD_OPTIONS_APPEND``
        | Append the options for clBuildProgram and clCompileProgram.
      - Unset by default.
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_LINK_OPTIONS``
        | Set the options for clLinkProgram, override.
      - Unset by default.
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_LINK_OPTIONS_APPEND``
        | Append the options for clLinkProgram.
      - Unset by default.
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_OCL_WAIT_COMMAND``

>         | Enable a wait for every submitted command.

Author: Fixed.

      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``OCL_SET_SVM_SIZE``
        | Set Shared Virtual Memory (SVM) space size for discrete GPU.
      - ``65536``
      - Unit: Byte

    * - | ``OCL_STUB_PROGRAMS``
        | Enables OCL programs stubing.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``OPENCL_VERSION``

>         | Force GPU OpenCL version.

Author: Originally, we have an OpenCL version. This variable override the original value, so the sets can be misleading. Any better suggestion?

>         | Force GPU OpenCL version.

Reviewer 8: updated.

      - ``200``
      - 

    * - | ``AMD_OPT_FLUSH``
        | Kernel flush option.
      - ``0x1``
      - | ``0x0`` = Use system-scope fence operations.
        | ``0x1`` = Use device-scope fence operations when possible.

    * - | ``AMD_SERIALIZE_COPY``
        | Serialize copies
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Wait for completion before enqueue.
        | 2: Wait for completion after enqueue.
        | 3: Both

    * - | ``AMD_SERIALIZE_KERNEL``
        | Serialize kernel enqueue.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Wait for completion before enqueue.
        | 2: Wait for completion after enqueue.
        | 3: Both

    * - | ``AMD_THREAD_TRACE_ENABLE``
        | Enable thread trace extension.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``CL_KHR_FP64``
        | Enable/Disable support for double precision.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``CQ_THREAD_STACK_SIZE``
        | The default command queue thread stack size.
      - ``262144``

>       - | Unit: Byte 

Author: Should I remove all the Unit line?

>         | The default value corresponds to 256 kilobytes (KB). 

Author: My suggestion here. Default: 256 kilobytes (KB). What do you think?

    * - | ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES``
        | Only devices whose index is present in the sequence are visible to HIP
      - Unset by default.

>       - ``0,1,2``: Depending on the number of devices on the system.

Author: These numbers are the device indices list, not the number of devices.

      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``DEBUG_CLR_LIMIT_BLIT_WG``
        | Limit the number of workgroups in blit operations.
      - ``16``
      -

    * - | ``DISABLE_DEFERRED_ALLOC``
        | Disables deferred memory allocation on device.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ADD_HBCC_SIZE``
        | Add HBCC size to the reported device memory.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ANALYZE_HANG``
        | Enables GPU hang analysis.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_BLIT_ENGINE_TYPE``
        | Blit engine type.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Default
        | 1: Host
        | 2: CAL
        | 3: Kernel

    * - | ``GPU_CP_DMA_COPY_SIZE``
        | Set maximum size of CP DMA copy in kB.
      - ``1``
      - Unit: kilobyte (KB)

    * - | ``GPU_DEBUG_ENABLE``
        | Enables collection of extra info for debugger at some performance cost.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_DEVICE_ORDINAL``
        | Select the device ordinal, a comma separated list of available devices.
      - Unset by default.

>       - ``0,2``: Expose the 1. and 3. device in the system.

Author: ``0,2`` exposes devices 1 and 3. The 1 and 2 in the system would be ``0,1``.

    * - | ``GPU_DUMP_BLIT_KERNELS``
        | Dump the kernels for blit manager.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_DUMP_CODE_OBJECT``
        | Dump code object.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_COOP_GROUPS``
        | Enables cooperative group launch.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_HW_P2P``

>         | Enables HW P2P path.

Author: Fixed.

      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_LC``

>         | Enables LC path.

Author: I am requesting information, from HIP team.

      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_PAL``

>         | Enables PAL backend.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Specifies PAL backend.
```

      - ``2``
      - | 0: ROC
        | 1: PAL
        | 2: ROC or PAL

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_WAVE32_MODE``

>         | Enables Wave32 compilation in HW if available.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Enables Wave32 compilation in hardware, if available.
```

      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_ENABLE_WGP_MODE``

>         | Enables WGP Mode in HW if available.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        | Enables WGP Mode in hardware, if available.
```
Specify WGP full form if possible

Author: Added WGP description. @SwRaw please check.

Reviewer 8: I meant to add full forms for all abbreviations in the document (if you can get that information).

      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_FORCE_BLIT_COPY_SIZE``
        | Size in KB of the threshold below which to force blit instead for sdma.
      - 0

>       - Unit: kilobyte (KB)

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``GPU_FORCE_QUEUE_PROFILING``
        | Force command queue profiling by default.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_FLUSH_ON_EXECUTION``
        | Submit commands to HW on every operation.
      - ``0``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_IMAGE_BUFFER_WAR``
        | Enables image buffer workaround.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_IMAGE_DMA``

>         | Enable DRM DMA for image transfers.

Author: Fixed.

      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_COMMAND_BUFFERS``
        | The maximum number of command buffers allocated per queue.
      - ``8``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_HEAP_SIZE``
        | Set maximum size of the GPU heap to % of board memory.
      - ``100``

>       - | Unit: Percentage 

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_HW_QUEUES``
        | The maximum number of hardware queues allocated per device.
      - ``4``
      - The variable controls how many independent hardware queues HIP runtime can create per process,
        per device. If an application allocates more HIP streams than this number, then HIP runtime reuses
        the same hardware queues for the new streams in a round-robin manner. Note that this maximum
        number does not apply to hardware queues that are created for CU-masked HIP streams, or

>         cooperative queues for HIP Cooperative Groups (single queue per device).

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_REMOTE_MEM_SIZE``
        | Maximum size that allows device memory substitution with system.
      - ``2``

>       - Unit: kilobyte (KB)

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_SUBALLOC_SIZE``
        | The maximum size accepted for suballocaitons in KB.
      - ``4096``

>       - Unit: kilobyte (KB)

Author: Fixed.

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_USWC_ALLOC_SIZE``
        | Set a limit in Mb on the maximum USWC allocation size.
      - ``2048``

>       - | Unit: megabyte (MB)

Author: Fixed.

        | -1: No limit

    * - | ``GPU_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE``
        | Maximum number of workitems in a workgroup for GPU.
      - ``0``

>       - | 0: Use default maximum number of workitems.

Author: Checked the code. This is not that simple. Please check the new text.

        |  

    * - | ``GPU_MIPMAP``
        | Enables GPU mipmap extension.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

    * - | ``GPU_NUM_COMPUTE_RINGS``
        | GPU number of compute rings.
      - ``2``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1, 2, ...: The number of compute rings.

    * - | ``GPU_NUM_MEM_DEPENDENCY``
        | Number of memory objects for dependency tracking.
      - ``256``
      -

    * - | ``GPU_PINNED_MIN_XFER_SIZE``
        | The minimal buffer size for pinned read/write transfers in MB.
      - ``128``

>       - Unit: megabyte (MB)

Author: Removed.

    * - | ``GPU_PINNED_XFER_SIZE``
        | The buffer size for pinning in read/write transfers in MB.
      - ``32``

>       - Unit: megabyte (MB)

Author: Removed.
